# Phase I: Analyzing Users, Competitors, and Initial Designs

## Introduction
The problem eBook Image Greyscaler aims to solve is twofold. When books are ported to an eBook format, there exists ways in which the port is handled poorly which might result in larger than necessary storage footprints, or unwanted color information. While being able to solve this storage footprint is admirable, in handling the color information it's possible to also assist in helping create accessible eBooks. By taking into account vision impairment and colorblind profiles, potential users are given the choice that empowers their needs. During this first phase of the project, work is primarily being done on color conversions as well as competitors in the space of compression and color converting of eBooks. 

## Methods
<!-- !!! Describe research methods you used to discover new insights, which explains the purpose of each. Provide enough detail that someone would be able to faithfully reproduce your research. !!! -->
<!-- Competitive analysis -->
Research was conducted via several key methods. First was a competitive analysis of relevant competitors in the same or tangential related field of eBook management. These included products ranging widely in usage and adoption from Calibre, a defacto open source eBook management software, to Adobe Digital Editions, A large library access point on mobile devices. We found a common trend across all these competitors was a lack of polished UI, and subscription or freemium services. Another key point was the lack of device compatibility, not many of these applications targeted all modern devices. Our research in this method also yielded a typical demographic of scholars, E-Book device users, and book archivists as well as comic readers. 

<!-- heuristic evaluation  -->
Our second research was conducted using a Heuristic Evaluation on a subset of the aforementioned competitors. This method focused on Calibre and took note of its strengths and weaknesses. Downloading the application for ourselves and taking a closer look at its features using the ten usability heuristics as a guide for evaluation. In general Calibre suffered from a shocking lack of feedback for the user, and poor UI polish. In particular the application did not fare very well in error prevention as during the evaluation, several errors occurred attempting to use basic features. Instead of using standard interfaces, Calibre opts for a table style to access books which felt dated among today's easily accessible cloud storage interfaces. One thing it did perform well in was user control and freedom. At the expense of potentially overwhelming a novice user, many options are available from a single right click or menu.

<!-- Persona studies -->
Finally our last approach to researching was via the use of Persona studies. Our team had crafted 3 different personas representing the target demographic of our product. This yielded the results relevant to our presumed targeted demographics. We found that users want to save money, and keep eBooks centralized. Users also want to maybe publish and archive books as well, also circling back around to making money. Accessibility was not as prevalent here but we found a use case in which authors could provide accessibility options for books published online.

## Findings
<!-- Competitive Analysis -->
Through our competitive analysis we figured out that a lot of our competitors had software that seemed to be outdated, with aged UI and a lot of issues with things like error prevention/recovery that appeared as though they were an issue on release and the software was never changed from there. We believe that users would prefer a more modern UI that is less cluttered and more clear on what button does what, with minimal distractions from the task at hand like an overload of buttons and text. There does not appear to be many eBook related softwares being released in the current age, so there appears to be a space to fill with a more sleek, concise, and quick eBook utility.

<!-- Heuristic Evaluation -->
Our heuristic evaluation led us to the conclusion that the number one focus should be doing as much as possible, quickly as possible, with minimal distractions. We want to develop a software that has clear purpose(s), and craft it so that any user can quickly achieve whatever they want to achieve for whatever their purpose may be. In a space where previous products appear to be rather dated, we want to assist a user who does not want to have to learn to use an old, clunky, complicated software, and instead wants to spend as little time possible fumbling with different utilities while trying to get the outcome they seek.

<!-- Personas/Scenarios -->
Our analysis of potential user personas and scenarios showed us that there are a wide range of people who read eBooks, and therefore may use our software, for a wide range of reasons, further pushing the point that the most important thing is software that anybody can use in a reasonable, short amount of time. One thing we also discovered from this is that it's important we give proper feedback because, for example, a student that is trying to compress a biology textbook which may have thousands of pictures may have to wait a relatively long time. In this case, it is important that it is clear that something is actually being done with their eBook file, so they are not stuck waiting unsure if anything is going to come out of it.

## Conclusions

We concluded that in terms of design, it is important that we first focus on making the software's primary purpose something that any user can achieve quickly, without having to jump over any hurdles. Interfaces should have as little information as possible to distract from the task at hand, while also wasting minimal time in the form of poor handling of errors. Finally, we believe feedback will be crucial because, as mentioned previously, the process may take a fair amount of time in a large enough book with enough pictures, so a user should have a clear view of how close they are to being able to move on, so they're not stuck waiting and hoping that their eBook is being properly greyscaled, and even worse, they don't cancel the process before it is done, leading to them having to potentially start over again.

## Caveats
<!-- !!! Considerations and/or limitations to the methods you chose and the findings/conclusions drawn from them. In other words, give warnings if there are limitations to your research such as not being able to find enough users of a particular demographic, the methods not being able to expose certain information, assumptions you made, etc. !!! -->
One caveat that should be noted is that with no real user data of our own, the information provided here is merely an estimate given the current landscape of the competitive space. Another noteworthy caveat is that the product space as is, is incredibly small. Very few competitors actually perform accessibility changes or compression on eBooks, as such we've had to expand our scope to include those tangentially related to fill gaps required for a comprehensive competitive analysis.
